Short Guide to Papers
===

Here's a list of the papers on migratory typing that I've worked on,
with a brief summary of the technical contributions in each.



Is Sound Gradual Typing Dead? (POPL '16)
---

Introduces a method to evaluate the performance of a migratory typing system;
specifically, the method is for programmers who want to add types to an
arbitrary set of modules in their program. Evaluates Typed Racket on a suite
of benchmark programs.


How to Evaluate the Performance of Gradual Type Systems (JFP '19)
---
(major revision of POPL '16)

Compares the performance of three implementations of migratory typing and
introduces a sampling variant of the evaluation method. Evaluates Typed Racket
on an extended suite of benchmark programs; the new programs use
object-oriented designs.


On the Cost of Type-Tag Soundness (PEPM '18)
---

Evaluates Transient Reticulated Python; notes major differences from Typed
Racket. On one hand, the worst observed overhead is within one order of
magnitude. On the other hand, the fully-typed version of a program is
typically the slowest. Typed Racket suffers more in the worst case but fares
better when fully-typed.


A Spectrum of Type Soundness and Performance (ICFP '18)
---

Presents a systematic, two-part investigation of the design space of migratory
typing systems. The first part models different designs as different semantics
for a common mixed-typed language, compares their type soundness guarantees,
and present additional examples that are not explained by type soundness. The
second part compares the performance of natural, erasure, and transient
migratory typing as implementations of the Typed Racket surface language; this
evaluation confirms the conjectures from PEPM '19.


Complete Monitors for Gradual Types (OOPSLA '19)
---

Continues the theoretical investigation of ICFP '18 with a formal account of
differences that were not explained by type soundness. Type soundness captures
shallow behavioral properties; it says little about systems that compose typed
and untyped components. The paper adapts complete monitoring (from prior
research on higher-order contracts) to test whether a language protects all
channels of communication between typed and untyped code.


Collapsible Contracts (OOPSLA '18)
---

Uses the POPL '16 method to measure the benefit of an optimization that folds
stacks of higher-order contracts into a single tree-shaped contract. The
collapsing method was implemented by Daniel Feltey and invented by Michael
Greenberg. Performance is still poor in many benchmarks after collapsing; the
optimization is irrelevant in some benchmarks, and needs to be implemented for
additional higher-order contracts to support others.


The Behavior of Gradual Types: A User Study (DLS '18)
---

Uses the ICFP '18 model to survey developers' preference regarding three
different semantics for migratory typing (natural, transient, and erasure).
Respondents preferred a semantics that enforces all types. The survey did not
ask about performance.
